# Flatten the Curve

Video link: https://youtu.be/RILYi5p_oQc

## Description

Coronavirus panic! You are a newly appointed government bureaucrat and you seek to protect your country (and your new job) from a strange and threatening disease.

Infected citizens will infect healthy people unless quarantined. They have a chance of dying.

Quarantined people have a chance of recovery and a smaller chance of dying.

You can use your bureaucrat powers once each week to make changes in your society, balancing resources with healthcare outcomes:

- Wealth: generated by healthy citizens. It is used to fund healthcare and contact tracing measures.
- Healthcare capacity: the number of beds available in your hospitals/isolation facilities. Your country can only hold this number of people in quarantine at any one time.
- Contact tracing effectiveness: the higher this value, the greater the proportion of infected people added into quarantine each week.
- Social distancing state: Put your citizens in ~~lockdown~~ circuit breaker mode! This helps decrease infection rate, but decreases wealth generated.

## Actions

You can take the following actions each week:

- Improve healthcare: uses wealth to build hospitals/isolation centers, increasing the number of beds available for quarantined patients
- Set social distancing: announce new social distancing measures to help curb the spread of the virus. This negatively effects the economy and hence your wealth.
- Improve contact tracing: invests wealth in contact tracing operations, to increase the proportion of people added into quarantine each week

## Goal

Ideally, you would aim to eliminate the virus. Once there are no more infected citizens, the virus is contained (imagine no more new cases in today's news!).

The stakes are high. If you let the death toll reach 10% of the population, it's the end for your country (and your job) as you know it.

## Programming 

class population

The spread of the virus is modelled by a modified SIR model, which is a system of ordinary differential equations commonly used in epidemiology. I modified the preexisting model to include quarantined and dead segments. All constants and functions relating to this model are held in this class.

We divide the population into susceptible (S), infected (I), quarantined (Q), recovered (R) and dead (D) segments.

The differential equations can be found in population.update(). This method also implements Euler's method to solve the ODEs numerically over small time periods.

class env

The original model uses certain epidemiological constants (e.g infectious period, incubation rate, recovery rate, death rate) to determine the size of the change from one segment to another. I made some of these constants variables that could be modified by the player's actions.

The player actions affecting wealth, healthcare, social distancing state, contact tracing effectiveness as well as the variables themselves are stored in this class.

I decided on the effects of each action (ie. how much each variable is changed) by play-testing the game and adjusting values to ensure game balance.

class game

This is a state machine that runs the game and shifts it to different states depending on the input given by the player.

## References

An explanation of the original SIR model can be found here: https://triplebyte.com/blog/modeling-infectious-diseases.